1. Git branch - This command is used to manage branches in Git repositories. It allows me to view, create, delete and manage branches.
(i) List branches - When we run git branch without any additional options or arguments, it lists all the branches in my repositories. The current branch is indicated with an star(*) and other branches listed below.
(ii) Create a new branch - When create a new branch we provide it with the argument to the git branch command.
For example - git checkout  -b "name of the new branch".
(iii) Switch to a branch - The command itself does not change to different branch. To switch to different branch we use 'git checkout' command or 'git switch' command followed by the branch name.
For example - git checkout 'branch name'.
(iv) Rename a branch - oFor renaming of the branch we can '-m' option followed by old branch name and new branch name.
For example - git branch -m old branch new branch
(v) Delete a branch - To delete a branch we use '-d' option followed by the branch name.
for example - git branch -d branch-to-delete

2. Git log - This command is used to view the commit history of Git repository. It diplays the list of commits, showing details such commit hash, author, date and commit message.
(i) Commit history - When you run 'git log', Git retrieves the commit history of the current branch and displays it in reverse order, starting with the most recent commit.
(ii) Commit hash - The commit hash is a unique identifier for each commit. 

3. Git push origin <branch name> - This command line is used to upload the local commits of a specific branch to a remote repository. It sends the commit to remote repository specified by the name 'origin'.
(i) Remote repository - In, Git a remote repository is a copy of a repository hosted on a different machine or a server.
(ii) Branch name - We need to specify the branch name as an argument in the 'git push' command.
(iii) Commit transfer - When we run 'git push origin <branch name>', Git compares the local branch with the corresponding branch in remote repository.

4. Git pull - This commands is used to update your local repository with latest changes from a remote repository. It combines two operations: fetching the latest commits from the repository and merging them into your current branch.
(i) Fetching - When you run 'git pull', Git contacts the remote repository and retrieves the latets commits and assosiated objects from the remote repository.
(ii) Updating the remote - After fetching, Git updates the corresponding remote - teacking branch in your local repository.
(iii) Merging changes - After updating the remote - trackking branch, Git performs a merge operation to combine the fetched commits with your current branch.
